Hi! My name is Cam Bass. I am a fourth-year Co-op student at the University of Victoria eligible to graduate in May. I'm majoring in Biology and Software Development, and my primary field of study is genetics and bioinformatics.

I spent my 2nd and 3rd year at UVic working in the lab of Dr. Greg Owens, getting my first experience conducting computational genomics research. This year I am working for Dr. Juergen Ehlting and in a Biotechnology club supervised by the Emeritus professor Dr. Fran Nano. For the past 3 years, I have also been working as a lifeguard and swim instructor for multiple shifts every week. I am hard-working and enthusiastic about everything I do, and I am grateful for the resources that have been allocated for my expansive education.

At UVic, I have taken advanced courses in Computational Genomics, Applied Genomic Techniques, Cell Biology, Cancer Biology, Plant Biology, Neurobiology, Developmental Biology, Animal Biology, Epidemiology, Endocrinology, and Microbiology. I love learning, and I instantiate my knowledge via an integrative bottom-up approach to the world; I always endeavour to build a fundamental understanding of every subject, in Biology and beyond. I have 4 years of experience with practical applications of Biology such as plant, animal, and cell culture techniques, working with live vertebrate and invertebrate animals, and microscopy, as well as 3 years of experience with Genomic techniques such as DNA isolation, PCR amplification, quality control, sequencing, and data analysis. I follow instructions and procedures dutifully, and I always maintain steadfast adherence to all safety standards and protocols.

Under the guidance of Dr. Owens, I gained experience programming in Python, Java, R, Linux/UNIX systems, and C languages for bioinformatic genetic analysis. I am well versed in the use of genomic tools like SAMtools, BWA, Picard, and GATK, as well as VCF, FASTA, and other common file formats. I have 2 years experience using Git, and cloud-hosted databases like NCBI, Gnomad, and OMIM. In Dr. Ehlting’s lab, I am assisting on a plant and fungal genomics project with Douglas Fir trees and pathogenic Swiss Needle Cast. In the UVic Biotech club, I am the scientist in charge of the Raspberry Pi Bioreactor used to culture our transgenic bioplastic-producing E. coli. As a lifeguard, I often have to manage emergencies on-deck or deliver first-aid to a distressed patron independently. 
